#summary W3C Selenium testing and results instructions.

= Introduction =

The W3C XForms 1.1 Test Suite has been incorporated into the Ubiquity-xforms project to facilitate compliance testing.  You can checkout a copy of the trunk to your local environment and start the Selenium testing by opening the _testcase/index.html_ file and selecting *Run W3C Selenium Tests*.  Visit this link for more information about [http://seleniumhq.org/ Selenium].

= Details =

When you run the Selenium tests, you can quickly see the results of the Selenium testing by observing the background colors of the listed tests.  Red indicates the test or Selenium cmd failed, and green indicates the test or Selenium cmd passed.  There are some tests which are highlighted in red text to indicate the test is not enabled for Selenium.

==W3C XForms 1.1 Driver Pages==
The [http://ubiquity-xforms.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/testsuite/W3C-XForms-1.1/Edition1/driverPages/html/index.html W3C XForms 1.1 Test Suite] contains a driver to run the individual tests by chapters as they are presented in the XForms 1.1 specification.  Further, the W3C XForms 1.1 test suite has an [http://ubiquity-xforms.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/testsuite/W3C-XForms-1.1/Edition1/driverPages/forms/index.xhtml XForms mode] (not yet working with Ubiquity-XForms) which allows a user to mark individual tests as passed or failed and the date of the observed status.  These results can be saved to a local file system (e.g. if you were testing Chapter 2, select *2. Introduction to XForms*, select test 2.1.a _Introductory Example No. 1_ and depending on the success of the test case return back to the chapter 2 page and select 'Passed', 'Failed', or 'Unknown' status and select a date with the calendar control).  You can select the *Save* button to save the results to the folder ../Results/XF11_02_Results.xml.  For the ubiquity-xforms results, we manually moved these xml files from the ../Results folder, respectively, to Results/FF3 for Firefox 3 results, and IE7 for Internet Explorer results.

==Viewing Results==
There is a ResultsTable.xhtml document written with XForms which displays the results of the above manual testing methods of the W3C XForms 1.1 Test Suite. But due to various reasons, we had to use an X/HTML oriented approach to display these results.  To view the Results from above, you will need to transform the XML files above to X/HTML.  To do this, inspect the testsuite/W3C-XForms-1.1/Edition1/driverPages/Results/build.xml and ubiquityxforms.xsl files.  You may need to edit these files depending on whether you are working with IE or Firefox results.  If you are an Eclipse user, select the build.xml file and right click on the "Run As > Ant Build" to transform the IE7 or FF3 results to html files under IE7/html and FF3/html. 

At this point you can open testsuite/W3C-XForms-1.1/Edition1/driverPages/Results/IE7/ResultsTable.html or testsuite/W3C-XForms-1.1/Edition1/driverPages/Results/FF3/ResultsTable.html to see a view-at-a-glance results of the test runs. 

==TBD==
The next stage we have been working on is to find an automated way to run the Selenium tests, collect the passed/failed status, and automatically update the Results xml files to quickly present the current state of the product. 