#summary Loan Form Example in XForms's simplified syntax
#labels Sample,SimplifiedSyntax

= Introduction =
The [http://ubiquity-xforms.googlecode.com/svn/branches/loan-form/_samples/Loan/loan-lowercase.html XForms Loan Application Form] demonstrates various XForms features. In order to further refine the notation and explore an approach to implementing the [StorySimplifiedSyntax simplified syntax in Ubiquity XForms ]. We converted the loan form example to simplified syntax based on the [http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-forms/2008Mar/0097.html XForms 1.2 Simplified Syntax Proposal] and additional syntax in the tentative syntax section.

= Simplified Loan Form =

The following form shown the simplified syntax of the [http://ubiquity-xforms.googlecode.com/svn/branches/loan-form/_samples/Loan/loan-lowercase.html XForms Loan Application Form].

{{{

<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
   <script>g_sBehaviourDirectory = "../../behaviours/";g_temporaryFlagLoadCustomControls=true;</script>
   <script src="../../ubiquity-simple.js" ></script>
   <script src="../../ubiquity-loader.js" type="text/javascript">/**/</script>
</head>
<body>

<form name="datarecord" action="http://xformstest.org/cgi-bin/echo.sh" method="post" >
   <label>Loan Form</label>
   <label for="startdate" >Agreement Date:</label>
   <input name="startdate" type="date" default="08/08/2008" />
   <br/>
   <group name="borrower">
     <label>Borrower</label>
     <label for="name">Name:</label>
     <input id="name" name="name" type="string" default="Joe Q. Public" 
            constraint="string-length(.) > 0" />
     <br/>
     <label for="addr">Address:</label>
     <input id="addr" name="addr" type="string" default="123 Main St. Tinyville" 
            constraint="string-length(.) > 0" />
     <br/>     
   </group>
   <label for="principal">Principal</label>
   <input name="principal" type="double" default="10000" 
          constraint=". &gt;= 1000 and . &lt;= 100000" />
   <br/>
   <label for="currency">Choose currency</label>
   <select name="currency" >
     <option value="USD">US Dollars</option>
     <option value="CDN">Canadian Dollars</option>
     <option value="EUR">Euros</option>
   </select>
   <br/>
   <label for="duration">Duration of Loan in Months:</label>
   <input name="duration" type="integer" default="12" 
          constraint=". &gt; 0 and . &lt;= 84" />
   <label for="interestrate">Yearly Interest Rate:</label>
   <input name="interestrate" type="double" default="5" 
          constraint=". &gt;= 5 and . &lt;= 60" />
   <br/>
   <label for="submit">Apply Loan</label>
   <submit id="submit" />
</form>
<output name="rates" calculate="interestrate div 1200.0" />
<output name="totalpayout" calculate="ceiling(principal + (125 * interestrate * (duration * 0.1)))" />
<output name="monthly-payment" calculate="ceiling(totalpayout div duration)" />

</body>
</html>
}}}

= Tentative Syntax =

In order to complete the conversion to the simplified syntax. Assumption is made and tentative syntaxes is introduced in addition to the  [http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-forms/2008Mar/0097.html Summarized XForms Simplified Syntax Proposal]. Here is the summary:

  
====1) Namespace====
  The elements of the simplified syntax is assumed to be in the HTML namespace tentatively.

====2) Impl Attribute====
  Since the form is assumed to be in an HTML namespace, there should be a way to separate/switch the simplified syntax from a regular HTML's form. Since namespace seems to be a non-starter. An _impl_ attribute is tentatively added to indicate the content of the form is implemented using xforms's simplified syntax. 
{{{
<form impl="xforms-simple"... >
..
</form>
}}}

====3) Group Element====
  In the original loan form example, the data instance has a structure that doesn't involve a repeat (such as the one in the summarized example). A _group_ element is added to capture the same data structure of a structured data instance.
{{{
   <!-- sturcture data instance using simplified syntax -->
   <group name="borrower">
     <input id="name" name="name" type="string" default="Joe Q. Public" />
     ...
     <input id="addr" name="addr" type="string" default="123 Main St. Tinyville" />
     ...
   </group>

   <!-- data structure in data instance -->
   <borrower>
     <name>John Q. Public</name>
     <addr>123 Main St. Tinyville</addr>
   </borrower>   
}}}

====4) Label Syntax====
  In the Simplified Syntax Proposal, there is no dicussion of where to obtain or how to specific the xforms's label in the syntax. Most of the time in HTML, label is just a brunch of text nodes in front of the HTML input field. 
  In above loan form example, the HTML label/for syntax is used as to define an input's label. A _label_ element is specified with inline text and a _for_ attribute is referenced to input element's id; Also notice a label element can be hanged as a child element of a container (form/group) which indicate that the label is for the corresponding group/form.
{{{
  <group name="borrower">
    <label>Borrower</label>
    <label for="name">Name:</label>
    <input id="name" name="name" type="string" default="Joe Q. Public" />
    ....
  </group>
}}}
  The syntax is a tentative decision to cater more to the existing HTML syntax. I would imagine others might has differnt opinion on that. Some has suggested we could simpify it by adding a _label_ attribute on the input or putting the label as inline text of an input.
{{{
    <!-- inline text -->
    <input id="name" name="name" type="string" default="Joe Q. Public">Name: </input>
    <!-- label attribute -->
    <input id="name" label="Name :" name="name" type="string" default="Joe Q. Public" />
}}}