#summary Tests that need to be revised for one reason or another.
#labels ToDo

= Introduction =

This page is simply a collection of W3C tests that need to be revised.


= To Do =

== 4.2.2.b ==

Not testing feature properly.

== 4.3.6.a == 

Should not use buttons or messages as these obscure what is really going on with transferring focus between elements. Similarly the events should record what element had the focus and which is receiving it.

== 4.3.7.a ==

It isn't clear if the targetted element is actually receiving the focus or not. Consider similar revision to 4.3.6.a.

== 4.4.14.a ==

The setvalue on xforms-ready event are not garunteed to execute in any paticular order. This test needs to be revised to account for this.

== 4.4.18.a ==

The message elements should be outside the repeat element. As they are within the repeat, multiple messages are being created for each event.

== 4.8.1.a ==

Selenium cannot interact with alert boxes, as such the revision needs to display the result somewhere within the DOM. Furthermore a test should be incorporated to ensure that the function getInstanceDocument is supported.

== 4.8.1.b ==

Selenium cannot interact with alert boxes, as such the revision needs to display the result somewhere within the DOM. Furthermore a test should be incorporated to ensure that the function getInstanceDocument is supported as it is unclear if the test is passing because it should, or because the exception is being thrown due to lack of implementation.