#summary An overview of plans for the Ubiquity XForms library.
#labels Featured,Phase-Requirements,Status

= Releases =

== [http://code.google.com/p/ubiquity-xforms/source/browse/tags/0.6.1 0.6.1] ==

  * Fixed timezone issues with date- and time-related functions.
  * Fixed Firefox 3 cross-domain XBL issue. (See issue 28.)

== [http://code.google.com/p/ubiquity-xforms/source/browse/tags/0.6.0 0.6.0] ==

  * Added support for {{{days-from-date()}}}, {{{days-to-date()}}}, {{{seconds-from-dateTime()}}}, {{{seconds-to-dateTime()}}}, {{{adjust-dateTime-to-timezone()}}}, {{{seconds()}}}, {{{months()}}}, and {{{property()}}}.

== [http://code.google.com/p/ubiquity-xforms/source/browse/tags/0.5.1 0.5.1] ==

  * Fixed issue that {{{choose()}}} was not returning the correct object type.

== [http://code.google.com/p/ubiquity-xforms/source/browse/tags/0.5.0 0.5.0] ==

  * Added support for {{{avg()}}}, {{{min()}}}, {{{max()}}}, {{{random()}}}, {{{compare()}}}, and {{{count-non-empty()}}}.

== [http://code.google.com/p/ubiquity-xforms/source/browse/tags/0.4.0 0.4.0] ==

  * Added support for {{{local-date()}}}, {{{local-dateTime()}}}, {{{now()}}} and {{{choose()}}}.

== [http://code.google.com/p/ubiquity-xforms/source/browse/tags/0.3.0 0.3.0] ==

 * Added unit-testing framework, and improved the integration tests.

[http://code.google.com/p/ubiquity-xforms/issues/list?q=Version:0.3&can=1&colspec=Version+Status+ID+Summary&sort=Status Status of version 0.3 issues]

== 0.2.0 ==

  * Replaced our own module loader with the YUI one. This is because the YUI loader supports specifying dependencies between modules, which in turn requires an examination of those dependencies. This information is important to have before we try to add more modules, or split apart existing modules. In the longer term we will enable the use of different loaders, such as the Dojo one. (See issue 4.)

[http://code.google.com/p/ubiquity-xforms/issues/list?q=Version:0.2&can=1&colspec=Version+Status+ID+Summary&sort=Status Status of version 0.2 issues]

== 0.1.0 ==

[http://code.google.com/p/ubiquity-xforms/issues/list?q=Version:0.1&can=1&colspec=Version+Status+ID+Summary&sort=Status Status of version 0.1 issues]

= Feature branches in progress =

== [http://ubiquity-xforms.googlecode.com/svn/branches/stream-lined stream-lined] ==

Owner: [http://code.google.com/u/nkling/ nkling]

Branch for XForms stream-lined syntax

== [http://ubiquity-xforms.googlecode.com/svn/branches/ajax-xforms-model ajax-xforms-model] ==

Owner: [http://code.google.com/u/nkling/ nkling]

Wrap ubiquity xforms's model into different Ajax toolkit (ex. dojo, YUI)

== [BranchImplementSelect implement-select] ==

Completing support for {{{select}}} and {{{select1}}}.

== [http://code.google.com/p/ubiquity-xforms/source/browse/branches/issue-44 issue-44] ==

Owner: [http://code.google.com/u/wellsk0705/ wellsk0705] 

Provide support for *.xhtml (application/xhtml+xml) content. 

== [http://code.google.com/p/ubiquity-xforms/source/browse/branches/issue-59 issue-59] ==

Owner: [http://code.google.com/u/wellsk0705/ wellsk0705] 

Remove duplicate creation of DOMActivate

== [http://code.google.com/p/ubiquity-xforms/source/browse/branches/issue-60 issue-60] ==

Owner: [http://code.google.com/u/wellsk0705/ wellsk0705] 

Add submit to generated-css.css, and remove duplicate xf|value from xforms-defs.js

== [http://code.google.com/p/ubiquity-xforms/source/browse/branches/xforms-tests-and-examples xforms-tests-and-examples] ==

Owner: [http://code.google.com/u/wellsk0705/ wellsk0705] 

Addition of XForms W3C test suite, a selenium harness and some xforms examples.

== [http://code.google.com/p/ubiquity-xforms/source/browse/branches/loan-form loan-form] ==

Owner: [http://code.google.com/u/rahul.akolkar/ rahul.akolkar]

Branch for loan form improvements such as adding a popup calendar and group styling.

== refactor-vertextargets ==

Refactoring vertextargets.js.

Owner: [http://code.google.com/u/paul.butcher/ paul.butcher]

== [http://code.google.com/p/ubiquity-xforms/source/browse/branches/hint-work hint-work] ==

Owner: [http://code.google.com/u/mdmcente/ mdmcente]

Completing support for hint.

== [http://code.google.com/p/ubiquity-xforms/source/browse/branches/implement-message implement-message] ==

Owner: [http://code.google.com/u/mdmcente/ mdmcente]

Completing support for message.

= Merge status of feature branches =

|| *Branch title* || *Last merge _from_ trunk* || *Ready to merge _to_ trunk* || *Last merge _to_ trunk*  || *Merge in progress?* ||
||stream-lined ||r866||-||-||-||
||ajax-xforms-model||r485||-||-||-||
||fixing-alerts-on-FF3||-||-||r920||-||
||fixing-alerts-on-IE||-||-||r875||-||
||hint-work||r436||needs a code review||-||-||
||implement-alert||-||-||r680||-||
||implement-message||r479||-||-||-||
||implement-select||r693|| - || r702 || - ||
||issue-44||r895|| - || - || - ||
||issue-59||r883|| r883 || - || - ||
||issue-60||r888|| r888 || - || - ||
||loan-form||r720||-||-||-||
||refactor-vertextargets||r367||-||-||-||
||xforms-tests-and-examples||r642||-||-||-||